[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired special agent who served
in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we discuss a UFO
nuclear weapon event.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: What is a
nuclear weapon event?
>>DOTY: Nuclear
weapon event could
be a covered wagon, a helping
hand, or some other code
word that the United
States government uses
for a threat against a
nuclear weapon, a threat,
an action posed against
a nuclear weapon,
or a theft of a nuclear weapon.
>>EMERY: Now, I know you are
familiar with a special event.
I think it was at Loring
Air Force Base, correct?
>>DOTY: Yes, Loring
Air Force Base
in Northern Maine
near Limestone, Maine.
It was a strategic air
command base or a SAC base--
>>EMERY: SAC base, yeah.
>>DOTY: --that
contained B-52 bombers.
And these B-52 bombers
had nuclear weapons
installed on them.
And those B-52s were on alert
24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
And those nuclear
weapons were stored
in what the Air Force calls a
Weapons Storage Area, or a WSA.
But in actuality, anybody
else would call it
a nuclear weapon storage area.
But nobody on base would refer
to it as a nuclear weapon
storage area.
They referred to it as
a weapon storage area
because anything else
would have been classified.
And that's the way the
terminology existed back
in those days.
And nuclear weapons were
a priority A resource,
meaning they were guarded by
Air Force security personnel
or security police,
they called them.
And before that, they
called them air police.
And they guarded
them with weapons.
And every sign around a
nuclear weapon storage area
states deadly force
is authorized.
That means if you're
dumb enough to try
to enter that nuclear
weapon storage area
or that WSA or the alert
area that contained the B-52
bombers with nuclear
weapons installed on them,
you could be shot.
>>EMERY: So what kind of nuclear
weapon event happened at Loring?
>>DOTY: In November
1971, an event
happened that threatened
a nuclear weapon.
In the late hours of the
evening during a snowstorm,
a nuclear weapons guard--
they call him Air
Force security police--
he was a sentry dog handler.
But during the weather event,
because there was so much
snow on the ground, he
couldn't take his dog out.
The Air Force allowed him to go
out and perform distant support
duties but not the dog.
So he was out there on a post
outside a nuclear weapon storage
area guarding a fence line.
And the fence posts or the
postings of these security
policemen outside the fence
are in a 200-yard area.
So within a 200-yard area, they
have one, next distance away,
200 yards, they have another
Air Force security policeman.
So they're guarding
a fence line.
About 23:30 or about
11:30 PM at night,
this security policeman saw a
light coming towards his post.
He watched that light
get closer and closer.
He first thought, well, it's
an aircraft coming into Loring
and going to land at the
base or the flight line area.
Then as it got real
close, he realized
that wasn't a
conventional plane.
He never seen
anything like that.
And he would watch B-52s and
jet fighters land all the time.
>>EMERY: All day long.
>>DOTY: But as it
got real close,
he realized it was
probably a helicopter.
So he radioed in on his radio,
which was called an Ht220,
and asked central
security control,
which was the control
center for all the security
police within the alert area and
within the weapons storage area.
The controller at the
radio said, negative,
we have no helicopter due in.
So all of a sudden, this thing
lands and lands some distance
from him.
And because of this light
that was quite bright,
he didn't know what
this thing was.
And it was about 80 to
100 yards away from him
in a northeastern direction.
So he immediately
became alert, decided
this can't be something
that was scheduled.
So he stood his post.
And then immediately, he saw
something moving towards him.
It was something that
he didn't recognize.
It didn't appear to be any
military person in uniform.
It didn't appear to
be another guard.
be his supervisor.
But it was something
wearing a helmet.
It was something that was tall.
And it had a silvery suit on.
And then he realized
it wasn't a human.
But he didn't know what it was.
So his orders, his
guard orders, is
to challenge anyone that
comes upon his post.
So he immediately chambered
around in his M16 rifle
as he saw this
thing coming at him.
And he referred to
it as a humanoid.
>>EMERY: Humanoid.
>>DOTY: He challenged him,
pointing his M16 at him.
And this humanoid was tall.
He would say probably over
6' 5", 6 feet, 5 inches.
This security policeman
was 6 foot himself.
And this being
that's coming at him
was a lot taller than he was.
So the policeman tried to
transpond on his radio.
But his radio didn't work.
>>EMERY: Oh, great
>>DOTY: And so now
he's in trouble.
What does he do?
He's a young 19-year-old
security policeman,
been at Loring Air Force
Base for about nine months,
right out of security police
school at Lackland Air Force
Base.
And so the next thing
he's taught to do--
deadly force is authorized--
is start shooting.
He shoots one round of his
rifle at this humanoid.
It stopped.
The humanoid stopped.
He backed up now to
a post where there
was a phone, a landline phone.
These type of landline
phones, you pick it up,
and it automatically rings
into central security control.
It's a landline system.
So he goes back to that
because the humanoid is still
moving at him.
And he had already
fired one round.
It did stop.
But it didn't disable him.
He immediately
picked up the phone
and told the central security
control, I have an intruder.
And this intruder, I shot it.
But it's not stopping.
And then he watched this
intruder go right up
to the outside perimeter
fence and just walk through it
as if it wasn't there.
And so central
security control said,
I'm trying to get
the INSAT unit.
INSAT is the Internal
Security Alert Team
which functions inside the WSA.
Now, there's one
operating outside
called the SAT team, of
the Security Alert Team.
The central security control
can't notify either team
on the radio because
the radio doesn't work.
>>EMERY: Oh my goodness.
>>DOTY: So he doesn't know
the central security control
dispatcher, doesn't
know what to do,
except to pick up a
regular phone and call
another team that is
at another location.
And that's at the alert area.
And he was able to do that.
That phone worked.
And he said, we got
a situation here.
We got an intruder that
just came into the WSA.
Our radios don't work.
We need help out here.
So another team called QRT,
or the Quick Reaction Team,
which consists of 16 security
policemen armed with M60 machine
guns--
>>EMERY: They were activated.
>>DOTY: --they were
activated and responded.
But again, as they got
closer, they didn't have--
>>EMERY: No radio.
>>DOTY: --radio.
>>EMERY: No comms.
>>DOTY: But as this thing moved
through both layers of fence--
now, a weapons storage area
has two different fence lines,
an outer fence line with
concertina wire on, an inner
fence line with
alarms underground--
they're called made
for miles alarms--
and then the inner
perimeter that
has concertina on the
bottom and on the top.
But this humanoid
moved through both.
And now this humanoid is inside
a nuclear weapon storage area.
>>EMERY: In the red zone.
>>DOTY: Now, the security
policeman on the outside--
and we're going to name him.
His last name was Sherman.
He was talking still on the
radio to central security
control.
Eventually, the INSAT team,
or the Internal Security Team,
was close to central
security control,
which is located inside
the weapons storage area.
And one of the controllers
ran out and told them,
we got a problem.
Go help.
So then he saw--
of course, he's
outside the perimeter.
He sees the vehicle approach
this intruder that's walking
towards a bunker called 222.
THE number on it is 222.
Now, the INSAT, the
Internal Security personnel,
and the outside
person, they know
what's inside those bunkers.
>>EMERY: That's right.
>>DOTY: They're nuclear weapons.
They're B28s.
They're 1.1 megaton
nuclear weapons
that are installed on the B-52.
>>EMERY: They're
the warheads, right?
>>DOTY: They're the warheads.
And he could see this bunker.
And he could see the
INSAT team on the outside.
Now we switched to a staff
sergeant, Air Force staff
sergeant on the inside.
He's now telling the story.
He says they see
this thing moving
towards the bunker doors, which
are metal doors that are sealed
shut.
And they actually
are sealed shut
with not just a padlock but what
they call an arc weld on the top
and on the bottom.
And those arc welds had to
be broken by a special tool
to get in there.
And another thing within a
nuclear weapon storage area
or around any nuclear weapons,
there's a set procedure
that they have to follow.
And one of the set procedures
is a two-man concept,
meaning two people
with equal knowledge
has to first approach
a nuclear weapon.
Somebody with no knowledge can't
approach the nuclear weapon
because they could
tamper with it.
But two people with equal
knowledge could do it with.
Just so happened they had two
explosive ordnance disposal
personnel inside the area,
inside the maintenance shop.
These are EOD.
They're like bomb
team people that
know all about nuclear weapons.
Well, they summon them to the
scene by somebody running back
to the maintenance shop
and then coming back
because the radios were useless.
So as this thing, this humanoid
approached this bunker,
the doors immediately opened.
And now the bunkers open.
And this extraterrestrial
has access
to the interior of this
nuclear weapon's bunker.
>>EMERY: What happens next?
>>DOTY: The humanoid
goes inside the bunker.
Now there's a dilemma.
There's a real dilemma
because what are these?
At this point, there were
three INSAT security policemen,
a supervisor, and these two
explosive ordnance disposal
people, a master sergeant
and a technical sergeant.
The master sergeant
and technical sergeant,
they're armed with sidearms,
a 38-caliber model 19 six-shot
revolver.
And so the master sergeant, who
was the highest ranking person
among all of the people that
were there, went inside.
The tech sergeant, EOD
man followed him in.
And as they went inside, the
humanoid was standing over the--
>>EMERY: The warheads.
>>DOTY: --the nuclear weapon,
the warhead and had taken off
the outer shell.
Now, let's go back a little bit.
How do you take off
an outer shell casing?
There's 32 screws.
And there's special keys.
They're not something
a screwdriver
or any other type
of screwdriver open.
You have to have a special
tool to take those off.
Well, in a matter of
probably 20 seconds,
this humanoid had
taken off that casing.
And the casing
was on the ground.
And the humanoid was doing
something at the weapon.
Well, the master
sergeant then realized
that this thing could be
detonating it or whatever,
so he immediately fired
on with his handgun.
>>EMERY: 38, yeah.
>>DOTY: The security
police were still outside.
But he fired all six rounds
of a six-shot revolver
into this humanoid.
And other than it turning to
look at the security policeman,
it turned back
towards the weapon,
fixating directly
on that warhead.
After the master sergeant
fired his weapon,
the other security
policeman came in.
And at this time, the Quick
Alert Team, the QAT team,
had arrived.
And of course, they
have heavy weapons.
They have grenade launchers
and M40-millimeter grenade
launchers.
They have M60,
which is a machine
gun back in those days,
a 7.62 machine gun.
Now they're there.
Now there's all
this firepower there
trying to stop this
extraterrestrial, this humanoid
from damaging, detonating,
or whatever it's
doing to this nuclear weapon.
And so now there's a major
confrontation now because,
number one, they don't
want this thing to get out.
And so at some point after some
of the other security policemen
fired M16s at this humanoid,
they decided to shut the door,
seal it.
They didn't have the
arc welding thing.
But they were able to seal it
and lock it from the outside.
Now they have it trapped.
Now, there's two
problems with that.
Number one, it's a
lone inside with--
there's actually four nuclear
weapons inside this bunker.
It's alone with these
four nuclear weapons.
Number two, could
it detonate it?
What is its plan?
So they started trying to
formulate a plan on the outside.
And at this time, a captain
arrived, one of the supervisors.
And he decided, we
have to do something
to keep this thing because
he doesn't know anything
other than they're saying that
there's an intruder inside.
We locked him inside.
At some point later, a major
came, and a higher ranking.
Captain is one rank.
A major is higher
than a captain.
He arrived at scene.
And he said, open those doors.
>>EMERY: And get
this guy out of here.
>>DOTY: And get this
guy out of there
because we can't
have him inside.
So when they opened the
door, it was right--
as soon as they opened
the door, the humanoid
was standing right
there by the door.
But they could see
holes from the bullets
that they fired at
it and including
one up in the helmet area.
But it didn't seem like
the one in the helmet area
had penetrated.
There was just a mark there.
So they tried then
physical restrainment,
getting the biggest guys to
go in and try to restrain
him and put handcuffs on.
Well, that didn't work.
Two of the security policemen
were injured, pushed away.
And then this thing
started spinning.
It put its arms out
and started spinning.
Now, at this point and
later on the analysis,
the after-action
reports determined
that this thing probably
wasn't a biological creature.
It was a robot because none
of the bullets harmed him.
And this is 1971.
We didn't know a whole lot about
extraterrestrials at the time.
We knew some.
But none of these
security policemen
were ever briefed
into any of that.
And so as it was spinning,
anything that got in its way,
it would be harmed or killed.
So it spun out into
the open on a road.
And there was two vehicles
there, an armored vehicle.
They call it an M706.
It's like an armored vehicle
that the QRT came in.
Well, the driver of
the QRT then decided
to ram the creature
or the humanoid.
So he accelerated and
ran right into it,
knocking it over,
rolling over it.
And then this thing
moved all the way out
to the perimeter fences,
back into the UFO,
which was parked out there.
As they turned around,
there was two more humanoids
going in that bunker.
Now they got three
of these things.
>>EMERY: Similar to that one?
Exactly like that
one or different?
>>DOTY: No, exactly like that
one, the exact same humanoid
or extraterrestrial creature,
whatever you want to call it.
And so as those two went
into the bunker, then
they had to think quick.
Let's set up the
M60 machine gun.
They hadn't fired the
M60 machine gun yet.
And that's a machine gun.
>>EMERY: That's the heaviest
one we had back then.
>>DOTY: Back then,
Yeah, and a 7.62 round.
And so they set it up
outside and they fired in.
Now, I know some people were
probably going to say, well,
you're shooting at
a nuclear weapon.
Bullets are not going to
harm a nuclear weapon.
>>EMERY: No, not at all.
>>DOTY: No way they're
going to set that off.
And so they were firing
at these two humanoids
that's inside the bunker.
And although they
disabled one, dropping it,
it fell to the ground,
the other one wasn't.
And as that other one did
whatever it was meant to do
or whatever the objective
was, then started spinning
and came out.
That moved all the way out
to the perimeter fences
and then went back into the UFO.
And Sherman, who was on
the outside, fired his--
>>EMERY: Again, right.
>>DOTY: In fact, he used up
his entire 20-round magazine.
They had two magazines,
which is like the clip goes
into the weapon, 20
rounds in each magazine.
And that's all the load
that they carry out there.
He fired one complete
magazine, 20 rounds--
>>EMERY: 223.
>>DOTY: --223 caliber.
Never affected it.
But they still have
now one inside.
>>EMERY: The third one went
out of the weapon storage unit.
And it was spinning.
And it went through the fence.
Physically, did the fence get
damaged, or did it bleed through
like the other one?
>>DOTY: It was as
if it dematerialized
and rematerialized.
The fences were never damaged.
And there were a lot of pictures
taken later regarding this.
There was no damage
to the fence.
And there was an alarm system,
an underground alarm system,
very sophisticated.
They call it made for miles.
Anything that touches the
ground or goes over that alarm
should have activated.
The only thing that activated
was the alarm on the bunker.
The alarm on the
bunker did activate.
But that was after
the thing opened.
>>EMERY: It went through.
>>DOTY: But there was
no damage to the fence.
That third one went
back to the UFO.
Now we have the one
still inside the area.
So now they're
trying to get rope.
And they decided now as the
master sergeant goes back
to the maintenance building,
they had these heavy cables.
So he decided to bring
some of those out
to try to wrap them up.
And they did.
They put a tarp over it.
And they wrapped it up.
So now it's secure
as they could get it.
And now they don't
know what to do.
Now, the UFO then took off.
As it took off and
flew northwest,
the communication
system came back on.
Now they can talk on the radio.
And they're asking
for assistance
from a commander or somebody
else above the rank of major.
>>EMERY: So the major was
there orchestrating everything.
It was out of his
control at this point.
And now he's trying to
get permission for what?
>>DOTY: He's trying
to get an answer
to what to do with this
humanoid that we have here
and probably, as he says later,
an alien from another planet.
And that's his words.
And so the commander,
a lieutenant colonel,
he's the commander of the
42nd Security Police Squadron.
And that's the security
police squadron
that's protecting this
alert area and the WSA area.
He eventually comes out
with the wing commander.
And now the wing commander
is a one-star general.
And now they're trying
to figure out what to do.
So they initiated what they
call from a helping hand, which
is an incident involving
a nuclear weapon,
to a covered wagon,
which is another higher
incident involving a nuclear
weapon, to higher headquarters.
So it went to SAC headquarters,
which is at that time
an Offutt Air Force
Base in Nebraska.
And they said, anything
you can imagine
to do to detain that thing
and hold that until we
can get the right force there.
Now, unbeknownst to that team
there, we did have something.
And that was part of the SDART,
the Special Down Aircraft
Recovery Team, because
they were trained
in recovering not
just the craft,
but the occupants of the craft.
So they considered this
part of an SDART operation.
They then brought in a
forklift because this thing
is heavy, a forklift and a
flatbed truck to put it on.
What they were going to
do, they had larger bunkers
and a conventional storage area,
meaning a storage area that
had conventional nonnuclear
weapons like ammunition
and things like that.
And so they were going to
put it on this flatbed,
take it out of the
weapon storage area,
take it over to the
conventional storage area, which
was some pretty close distance
from the weapon storage area
and put the truck and
everything inside the bunker
and then try to seal it.
And so while they were doing
this, the UFO returned.
>>EMERY: Uh-oh.
Here we go.
>>DOTY: This time, the UFO flew
right over the storage area.
Now it's hovering right over
its occupant, the humanoid.
Now they don't know what to do.
So the squadron commander,
who was a lieutenant colonel,
ordered the machine gun
guy with the M60 to--
>>EMERY: Light it up.
>>DOTY: --shooting
at that thing.
Empty everything he had.
And he had, I think, 350
rounds or something like that.
Two belts.
And he started shooting at it.
Well, it shot back.
It shot something back that
totally disabled the M60 machine
gun.
>>EMERY: But did it hurt anyone?
>>DOTY: It didn't hurt anybody.
>>EMERY: Just the machine.
>>DOTY: Now, there was
already two security policemen
injured because of the
first one spinning.
And they were
trying to detain it.
So there's two.
That's some broken
arms or something.
And now when this
beam or something
was shot down to disable
this M60 machine gun,
now they have to
think of more tactics.
That didn't work.
So there was alert
aircrafts on duty
at Dow Air Force Base in
Maine, in Bangor, Maine.
They were F-106s.
But they had air-to-air rockets,
not air-to-ground rockets.
And they also carried
nuclear weapons.
But they sent two
nonnuclear alert aircrafts
down there to try to shoot this
thing down because what else are
they going to do?
We're in the middle of a
battle between our forces
and whatever is in that craft.
And so they did
everything they could do.
This thing hovered over.
Now, everyone that was
trying to load that humanoid
onto that flatbed moved back.
OK, everybody got
back because they
realized they have
a technology that's
in this flying saucer
that's hovering
above them is well more
advanced than anything we have.
And since the M60
machine gun is disabled,
these M60 machine guns
that fire a small around
isn't going to work.
So the commander ordered
everyone back and actually put
everybody in a bunker.
And so during the time
that they were isolating,
waiting for reinforcements,
and what they did was
they recalled the
security police squadron,
meaning everybody in that
security police squadron
that lives in those
barracks were recalled.
Get up.
Get ready.
Get your weapons.
And get out there because
we got a battle going on.
And so at some point, when
the aircrafts got there--
and it took like 30 minutes--
the craft was going away.
>>EMERY: It didn't take their--
>>DOTY: Yeah.
And when they went out to look
at the flatbed, which they had
already lifted the
humanoid up with a forklift
and put it on the flatbed
but they didn't have a chance
to drive out of there,
when they came out,
they noticed that
humanoid was gone.
>>EMERY: So what about
the nuclear warheads?
>>DOTY: One of the nuclear
warheads was missing.
Now, the strange
thing about this
is how did that nuclear weapon--
and I can't go into it.
But there's
procedures in the way
that those weapons are
stored inside the bunker.
They shouldn't have
been able to be moved.
And there's reasons for that.
But this one that they'd
already tampered with
and took the cone off, that
nose cone off, was missing.
Now, this presents a major
problem within the United States
military.
They lost a nuclear weapon.
What are they going to
do with a nuclear weapon?
We don't even know who
took the nuclear weapon.
Was it the Russians dressed up,
the Soviets back in that day?
So they launched three more
sets of aircrafts, F-106s.
And, of course, they were
flying north in New Brunswick.
The Canadian Forces have
their own alert aircraft.
They were the 101s,
seconds, the Voodoos.
And they launched
their aircraft.
They caught up with this thing
going up towards Labrador.
And they fired
everything they had,
the air-to-air
missiles, which was,
I think, Falcon missiles
back in the days.
>>EMERY: Falcon
missiles, correct.
Yeah.
>>DOTY: And they
disabled this thing.
But the thing made it into the
Atlantic Ocean and sunk there.
There wasn't any Canadian
Naval Force or American Naval
Force in close proximity.
It took some hours
for a naval force--
and I think it was the
Canadian Coast Guard--
to get to the location
where it was in the water.
But it was gone.
It's not there.
They would have to do
some kind of recovery.
But what they did find
was a nuclear weapon.
They jettisoned
that nuclear weapon.
Now, those weapons are gravity
bombs with a parachute.
And when we launch them, we drop
them over target out of a B-52,
they are set to deploy the
parachute and then detonate
at an altitude of 1,100 feet.
And this thing jettisoned
or they threw it out.
And the parachute deployed.
And it landed on the ground.
And they located
this nuclear weapon.
Now they have a problem.
Is this thing ready to detonate?
>>EMERY: Is it armed?
>>DOTY: Now we have a major
problem inside another country
in Canada.
>>EMERY: Now, the naval
forces, I do recall get there.
And I heard they did not
find the craft down there.
It was not down there.
>>DOTY: Yeah, they
didn't find it.
They never found the craft.
They searched.
Eventually they got underwater.
They got submarines there.
>>EMERY: Did they get any
pieces of the craft that
fell off during the big fight?
>>DOTY: They did.
They got something.
They think it's a large ball
with a small protrusion on it.
And they think that's
some sort of an antenna.
But again, the technology
is not something we
knew or could figure out then.
>>EMERY: And they did not get
any pieces of the beings at all?
>>DOTY: They didn't get
any pieces of the beings.
Nothing was left inside
the weapons storage area
from the confrontation they
had with the extraterrestrial.
And so when they found
the nuclear weapon,
they immediately then
notified a recovery team.
The SAC has a nuclear response,
nuclear disablement team,
they call them, would come in.
But they found that the
nuclear weapon was already
rendered safe, meaning
it couldn't detonate.
>>EMERY: So what was the
outcome of the event?
What did they find out later on?
>>DOTY: Well, they
found out, first
of all, that the weapon
system, the B28 that
was jettisoned by
the extraterrestrial,
was virtually an inert weapon.
The X unit, which is a
firing unit inside-- that's
not classified-- inside
the nuclear weapon
was gone, missing.
There were some MC components,
or military components,
that were use to generate a
signal to help detonate it.
They were gone.
They must have been
stolen because they
weren't in the bunker.
So what they figured out
was this particular species
of extraterrestrials
went in there
to disable a nuclear weapon.
Now, was that to
tell us that they
know all about our
nuclear weapons
and they know how
to disable them?
And we think that's
exactly what they did.
They jeopardized maybe
some of their own
to teach us a lesson to
say, don't use these things.
We know how to disable them.
And I think that's the message
that we, as a government,
received.
>>EMERY: They came.
They invaded us.
They took one of our warheads.
But they did not activate it.
They did not try to
hurt us until we started
initiating combat protocol.
>>DOTY: Yeah, I guess they--
I guess maybe they
didn't understand
exactly what a weapon storage
area and how it was guarded.
I mean, they're
extraterrestrials.
And they thought
maybe they could just
land and go in and take one and
disable it and leave it there.
But they took this one probably
because of the confrontation
that was occurring.
And they didn't expect that.
But I think they learned their
lesson from that 1971 incident.
>>EMERY: I can
see that actually.
>>DOTY: And based
on this incident,
there were new features
and new designs
created for nuclear bunkers
and nuclear weapon storage.
And unfortunately, all that
stuff is still classified.
And I'm not going
to talk about it.
But there have been
advanced techniques
used to secure nuclear weapons.
So no one, I mean, no one from
this world or any other world
could get in and steal
a nuclear weapon.
>>EMERY: Richard, that's one
of my most favorite stories.
And it's just
remarkable that you
were able to interview these
guys and read these reports.
Thank you for sharing with us.
>>DOTY: Thank you.
It was a great story.
>>EMERY: Thanks for being
on the show as well.
>>DOTY: You're welcome.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith.
And this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]